This programme contains
strong language
and scenes some viwers
may find distressing.
Where've you been?
Danny sent me home last night.
I'm sorry. I thought he told you.
OK. no problem.
So. as you know. we've been asked
to recheck the BT malware.
I'd like you to do a strings.
What. just pull all the text? Yeah.
That's right. and go through it.
You know. passwords. hash types...
See if we missed anything.
Look. if this is my fault
I'm really sorry... It's fine.
Someone needs to do the strings.
You're here on work experience.
Or. do you think
you're too grand to do it?
No. of course not.
Good.
Well. off you go then.
Options for an
Offensive Cyber response.
With respect. Prime Minister.
can I say that GCHQ opposes
the use of OC in a situation of this kind?
Why?
Because of the law
of unintended consequences.
We close down part
of Russia's electricity grid
but it turns out it also supplies a hospital.
They broadcast pictures of patients
dying and we've got a...
Offensive Cyber is an attack
on a country.
just like in any other domain of conflict.
and it's very. very dangerous.
as. with respect.
we are proving here.
They take out part of our infrastructure.
We retaliate. attack one of their systems.
They hit us again.
this time a more critical target.
We up the stakes another notch
and. before you know it.
we're into a cycle of escalation
and a catastrophic loss of life.
So. what do you suggest we do?
Expel more diplomats.
like we did after Novichok?
Look how much good that did.
They're playground bullies.
We need to hit back
in a language they understand.
If we do nothing. they'll just
come back at us harder next time.
Options.
Well. we could turn off SWIFT
to all their banks.
That might be quite appropriate.
given the impact
of their attacks on our cash machines.
No.
OK. Well.
we could take control
of Putin's car briefly.
Flash the lights.
accelerate and decelerate.
that kind of thing.
You can do that? Yes.
We could also drop his plane
20.000 feet. mid-flight.
As a demonstration of power.
that might be quite effective.
though they would almost certainly
target our leadership in response.
No.
What else?
I suppose we could fry
all the lines into Glavset.
Into what?
Glavset.
It's the source of most of Russia's
Twitter propaganda aimed at the UK.
We could shut it down.
How long would that take?
Er. well. we'd have
to create the exploit first.
so seven. maybe eight days.
Eight days?
OK. do it.
I'm sorry. I've got to take a break.
Can't keep my eyes open.
OK.
Don't be long.
Can I...?
Sure. why not?
You OK?
Just got to wake myself up.
What is it?
It's an energy drink.
It's sweet.
It's a quick hit. It'll keep you going.
So. who is he?
The old man you keep staring at.
Did they show you Jive?
What?
It's kind of like an in-house Facebook.
Well. he writes a blog for it every week.
correcting the grammar
in everyone else's posts.
What?
Yeah. No way.
I'm not shitting you.
That's what he's doing right now.
Just sitting there.
correcting our mistakes.
That is one sad fucker.
You're that student who found
the second malware. right?
Congratulations.
Not really.
I thought that you were the golden girl.
Yeah. "were" is right.
Apparently finding that code
just made everyone else look bad.
So now we've got to start again
and everyone in my department
hates me.
Well. maybe they're just jealous.
No. really.
What have you found?
Some of this text is encrypted.
That's OK. They do that sometimes.
It's probably just a bit of random text
that's got pasted in by mistake.
But shouldn't we check. to be safe?
Get it decrypted?
Can't. Not without the key.
Surely GCHQ can crack encryption
without a key.
Isn't that what we do here?
It's part of what we do.
So. who does that?
The mathematicians.
But you'd be wasting your time.
Why?
Sorry. I just want to understand.
for the future.
Because it would be
a huge commitment of resources.
and they wouldn't think it was worth it.
Just for this little bit of encrypted text?
That's right.
OK. thanks for explaining.
No problem.
But. if I happened
to know a mathematician.
here. in the building. would you mind?
If I could persuade him to take a look.
No. but he won't. And he'd be right.
It's not a priority.
And it's not what we've asked you to do.
Can I take this chair?
Thank you.
Don't people hate having
their grammar corrected?
Doesn't it just make everyone hate you?
If we wrote code
as sloppily as we write English.
it would never run.
Some things... Some things
have to be right.
Is that all you're having?
I'm Muslim.
They don't have anything halal here.
And I don't like vegetables.
I'm looking for a mathematician
friend. but he isn't here.
Can you tell me where they work.
the mathematicians?
I'm new here.
I'll show you if you like.
But I warn you. they won't be
very welcoming.
What's funny?
They won't be very welcoming?
No different to any other department
here then?
No different FROM
any other department.
It's "different from". "compared with".
Have you worked here a long time?
Here and before.
Before? Before we were in this.
this... doughnut.
Was it very... different from now?
It was.
I'd like to have seen that.
I can show you. if you like.
OK.
You wanted to see the mathematicians.
This is it. Cryptology.
By the way. we don't ask where
departments are at GCHQ.
especially Cryptology.
You know.
security and... all that.
But I won't tell if you don't.
If you do want to see the old HQ.
let me know.
Hello. I'm sorry to interrupt.
Is there anyone here called Gabriel?
What do you want?
I'm busy.
Do you really still use this stuff?
We don't have whiteboards.
Too noisy.
You shouldn't be here.
What is it?
It's encrypted text.
from a malware string.
Encrypted strings pop up all
the time. It doesn't mean anything.
That's what they told me you'd say.
Come on. Gabriel.
Encrypted text from a piece of
malware we haven't seen before.
It must be worth a look. surely?
Please.
I can't make any promises.
We're busy. We may decide it's not
worth the time and resources.
Are you saying you can't do it?
No.
I'm saying it may not be worth
the time and resources.
Thank you.
White boards...
Too noisy. as in too bright. right?
Of course.
What else could it mean?
Allah.
Forgive Ahmed Parvin.
and elevate his station
amongst those who are guided.
Send him along the path
of those who came before.
And forgive him and have mercy on him.
And make him steadfast
and pardon him.
Be generous to him.
and cleanse him of his transgressions.
as a white cloth cleansed of stains.
Ameen. Ameen.
Saara...
Saara. no.
Come.
Bye-bye. Abu.
Hello. we're going to need
to search your bag. Sure. Harriet.
Save the planet!
James.
How. was it?
No. Come here.
Don't. please.
Lunch is served.
OK. anyone saying... thank you?
Thank you? Thank you?
Thank you! Thank you. thank you.
What's wrong?
Are you allowed
to bring your class here?
Am I allowed?
It's the weekend.
I think it's. you know. I think it's good
that they know what's
going on in the world.
Isn't it?
Is this it?
Three words and some hexadecimal?
Why? Were you expecting more?
No. I don't know.
It's just... You've done it so quickly.
It was weird.
What?
You've heard of trap door encryption?
Is that what they used?
There was a rope hanging down.
through the trap door.
like it wanted me to climb up it.
like it wanted to be decrypted.
And?
Eagles summer stages.
that's what it says.
Plus some hexadecimal.
What does it mean?
I don't know.
And whatever you're up to.
I don't want to be involved.
Ever.
OK. Finn. let it loose.
Well done.
Now we wait.
I think the hexadecimal's
a date and time.
I wondered if the words
meant anything to you.
Where did you find this?
Hidden in the malware strings.
I got one of the mathematicians
to decrypt it for me.
Saara. you know that you shouldn't
be talking to me about this. right?
I'm not cleared for
the things that you're working on.
I know. but I just need a bit of help.
Sit.
I already did this.
OK.
Have you tried What Three Words?
So. three apparently random words
can be used to identify
a three-metre square
anywhere on the planet.
Your three words are inside...
Harrogate Conference Centre.
You said that you had a date?
Er. 28th of April. 9:30am.
My God.
It's Cyber World.
It's right in the middle
of the Cyber World conference.
That can't be a coincidence.
What does this mean?
I don't understand.
You said that this was encrypted
inside the BT malware?
Yeah.
Well. you have a date.
a time and a place.
It looks like someone's
sending us an invitation.
I think it's one of their coders.
trying to reach out.
What do Max and Phil think about this?
I haven't told them.
I wanted to crack it first.
Sorry. just to be clear.
you're working in malware.
and you haven't told your Head
of Department what you're doing?
Phil agreed to me getting it decrypted.
Yes. but you haven't told them
what you've found?
You've gone over their heads to me?
You're on a work placement.
Apart from anything else. have
you considered how incredibly
disrespectful it is to Max and Phil?
No. truthfully. I hadn't.
What's your involvement in this?
Well. you know. we've been trying
to track down the coders.
and if this is a message
from one of them...
OK. what do you suggest we do about it?
Me?
Yes. you.
I think someone should go to Harrogate.
Me. if no-one else will.
OK.
OK?
You can go.
No way!
I want you to go with her. OK?
If it's Cyber World.
the FSB are gonna be there.
It's likely one of their provocations.
It's got all the hallmarks.
And make sure you update Max and Phil.
She probably thinks we're on a date.
Or that I'm your carer.
It's back up. Glavset.
Yeah. Afraid so.
So how long did we manage
to take them down for?
About 21 hours.
Unbelievable.
And still no sign of a reprisal?
No. nothing. not even a polite complaint.
Makes us look a bit foolish. doesn't it?
All our dire warnings about the
escalatory nature
of offensive cyber.
I don't know. Maybe we were
smarter than we realised.
Russia's never acknowledged
the existence of Glavset.
How can you complain about an attack.
On an organisation that doesn't
officially exist?
What was this?
Canteen.
And... no meat. because you don't...
You know.
Thank you.
Why did you... Why did you choose
to work here in the first place?
Here at GCHQ?
Mum and Dad worked here.
GCHQ's a family business.
always has been.
So they met here?
Here? No.
At Bletchley. during the war.
Hut six.
Really?
Yes. if it weren't for GCHQ.
I wouldn't exist.
I haven't told my family where I work.
Really?
You can now. I think.
I know. but they wouldn't understand.
Well. my dad did. but he died.
You remind me of him.
Course. back in the day.
we didn't have emails
or bloody iPhones.
We had Lamson tubes.
What's that?
An old network of pneumatic tubes.
all over the place.
Did you know.
if you wanted to send a document.
do you know what you did with it?
You rolled it up...
put it in a carrier.
It could be anywhere.
anywhere in all these buildings
in two minutes. tops.
Marvellous.
Absolute marvellous...
piece of engineering. really.
It was about the size of that can.
Perfect for chocolate eclairs.
Yeah?
Yes.
Stern memos were sent.
"Personal use of the Lamson tube
is not permitted."
It was how I proposed to my wife.
No way.
Did she reply?
She said she'd think about it.
So you didn't go down
on bended knee then?
No. no. I was...
far. far too shy.
Do you...? No. You don't. do you?
It didn't last. of course.
She left me.
I don't blame her.
We could never really talk about
anything. what we were doing.
But you both worked here?
Surely she was the only type
of person you could talk to?
Different departments.
Compartmentation. they call it.
Can't talk about what you're doing.
Destroys relationships.
If you're not careful.
Funny. I used to think
of people here as my family.
They seemed like family.
But they weren't.
Not my real family.
You have to take care of your real family.
Choose.
James?
Katy?
Hi. Hi. Do you know where James is?
Yeah. yeah. He's behind the band.
round the corner there.
Are you Saara?
Yeah. Is James here?
Come on in.
Where's your coat?
What were you doing?
We were just training.
for if we get arrested.
OK. Er...
What is it. Saara? What's the problem?
I'm worried about your job.
OK... It's an illegal protest and
you're bringing your class here.
Does the school know?
You're not a student any more. James.
I know I'm not a student...
any more. but are you sure it's
not your job we're talking about here?
Yeah. Yeah. that's part of it. OK.
Did you know that most of the
questions I got asked
at my vetting interview were about you.
your politics.
Are you trying to get me into trouble?
No!
No. of course not.
But what are you saying?
That you can't work there
and have political views?
Because I don't know about you.
but I think this is quite important.
Whether the kids that I teach
will have a future on this planet.
Whether the kids you and I
might have one day
will have a future on this planet.
Isn't that more important than your job?
Or my job? Or any job. actually?
What is it?
I'm...
I'm really not thinking
about having kids with you. James.
I'm not. I'm sorry.
So. the "surface of revolution"...
is a surface... defined
by Z equals capital H
of R... You need to underline that.
Where R. Z and Theta are...?
Anyone?
Cylindrical polar coordinates.
Thank you. Saara.
Well. I'm glad someone's listening.
So. yes. our cylindrical
polar coordinates...
So. yes. So. Z is the height co-ordinate...
He should've written it out
before the lesson!
He definitely likes you.
Why don't you ask him out?
What?
That's so gross. Vadim.
Anyway. I can't. He's on the faculty.
Ask him anyway. Life's too short.
That was good today. Yeah.
Can I offer you a leaflet
for the Conservative Party?
Can I offer you a leaflet?
It's the safe vote.
Would you like a mask?
We've got red ones. yellow ones?
Thanks.
For my partner.
So who are you voting for?
Ha-ha.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Georgia Henderson? GCHQ don't
like us to use our real names.
OK.
Well. let's find the place.
so we're all set for tomorrow.
Here? Really?
Yeah.
Do you wanna decompress?
Sure.
Don't judge me. all right?
It's a problem. I'm not.
I've actually always wished
I was a messy person.
What? You know. my ex's apartment
was this beautiful.
minimalist nightmare
and if I left anything of mine out.
she had it gone in. like. nano-seconds.
Sounds passive aggressive to me.
Tidying away the evidence
of your existence.
You know what? You are exactly right.
You're more perceptive
than I give you credit for.
Can I have one?
I thought you don't drink?
I don't.
Careful now.
Shut up.
Right on time.
Dad.
Yeah. I know. I know. I was at dinner.
No. I did not have
a Yorkshire pudding. Dad.
but good job on the research.
Maybe next time.
Look. I gotta go. OK?
Yeah.
Night. Dad.
Love you too.
Sorry about that.
He always gets through to me.
even when I was in Iraq.
Have I said something wrong?
No. No.
Tell me.
It's just...
my dad died. Recently. actually.
Fuck. I'm so sorry. Saara.
I'm such a dick...
No. Honestly. it's fine.
It's great you've got such a good
relationship with your dad.
There was an accident...
a few days ago.
He was a train driver.
He was on the tracks
and he was hit by a train.
Fuck.
That's according to my family anyway.
What. you think that
it might have been deliberate?
He was difficult.
Unusual. not difficult.
I was the only one
who really understood him.
He was dependent on me.
Quite heavily dependent.
He had bouts of depression
when I was growing up.
And I used to be the one
who could make him laugh.
get him out of a slump.
And I went away
and I just abandoned him.
Hey.
It's not your fault. OK?
My dad's a cop.
and he was under the towers on 9/11.
And he lost most of his friends.
Guys that he'd known since school.
He was really fucked up by it.
I mean. we all were.
and he needed support too.
but. in the end. I still went
away. Saara. I still...
I still got on with my life.
But you talk to him every day.
even when you were in fucking Iraq.
I ignored mine.
I cut him out.
Saara. he loved you.
He loved you.
and I'm sure he understood.
Yeah. you're right.
He understood perfectly. that's the point.
He threw himself under a train. Kathy.
It's gonna be all right.
You're gonna be all right.
It's not... It's not a good idea.
You're upset.
I should go to bed.
Yeah. me too.
We've got some serious standing
around to do tomorrow. so...
Morning.
Let's get this over with so I can get back
to Danny's office and apologise.
It's gonna be fine.
One minute.
I'm sorry about last night.
I don't drink. you know.
and I guess it had more of
an effect than I was expecting.
Great timing on this particular
conversation starter. Saara.
Go on.
Thank you for coming.
What do you want?
Sorry.
Vadim!
What are you doing here?
Subtitles by Red Bee Media